# Movie-Recommendation-System

   Whenever you complete watching a film in any online streaming service like Netflix, Amazon Prime, Disney+, etc, you will automatically get suggestions to watch next film. This automatic suggestions are generated by a recommendation system.

   Recommendation System is an algorithm that suggest relevent items to users

   # Types of Recommendation System

   1. Content_Based_Filtering

   2. Collaborative Filtering

   # 1. Content_Based_Filtering

   They suggest similar items based on a particular item.

   In this recommender system the content of the movie (overview, cast, crew, keyword, tagline etc) is used to find its similarity with other movies. Then the movies that are most likely to be similar are recommended.

   # Datasets

 There are two type of Dataset

     1.credit

     2.movie

 credit dataset contain 4803 rows and 4 column and dataset contains the following attributes:

     title: Movie title.

     cast: Information about casting. Name of actor, gender and it's character name in movie.

     crew: Information about crew members. Like who directed the movie, editor of the movie and so on.

The movies dataset contains the following attributes:

     budget : The budget of the movie in dollars.

     Genres : Movie Genres in list.

     id : The ID of the movie.

    original_language: The language in which the movie was originally shot in.

    original_title : The original title of the movie.

    overview : A brief description of the movie.

    Popularity : Movie popularity rating as per TMDB.

    production_companies: A stringified list of production companies involved with the making of the movie.

    production_countries: A stringified list of countries where the movie was shot/produced in.

    Release_date : Date of release of the movie.

    revenue : The total revenue of the movie.

    runtime : The running time of the movie in minutes.

    Title : Movie Title.

    status : The status of the movie (Released, To Be Released, Announced, etc.)

    Vote_average : The average rating of the movie out of 10.

    Vote_count : Number of votes from the users.

   movies dataset contain 4803 rows and 20 columns.

   # Merging the datasets

  cosine similarity is a measure of similarity between two non-zero vectors defined in an inner product space.

  To define a function that takes in a movie title as an input and outputs a list of the 10 most similar movies.

  Testing our content-based recommendation system with the seminal film Spy Kids
    
        get_recommendations('The Dark Knight')

         3                         The Dark Knight Rises

        299                              Batman Forever

        428                              Batman Returns

        3854    Batman: The Dark Knight Returns, Part 2

       1359                                     Batman

       2507                                  Slow Burn

       1181                                        JFK

       119                               Batman Begins

       205          Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows

       879                         Law Abiding Citizen

     Name: original_title, dtype: object

We see that,it is able to identify it as a Batman film and subsequently recommend other Batman films as its top recommendations.

# 2)Collaborative_Based_Filtering

The Collaborative Filtering Recommender is entirely based on the past behavior and not on the context. More specifically, it is based on the similarity in preferences, tastes and choices of two users. It analyses how similar the tastes of one user is to another and makes recommendations on the basis of that.
        
